Collection of design best practices. Always strive to apply them: if you want to avoid using them, you need to have a really, really good reason to.
1. Classes should be immutable.
2. Classes should not have dependencies of any kind (imported classes/interfaces, object arguments to the constructor or to other methods, global values, etc.).
3. Do not use setters (see immutability) nor getters (tell, don't ask), unless it's a simple value object with no behavior (in which case you cannot "tell" it anything).
4. Use as few private fields as possible: this will lower the LCOM (Lack of cohesion of methods) factor, reduce the number of responsibilities, and increase the purity of methods. In the ideal case, each method should deal with exactly one private field, which is also the only field encapsulated by the class. These are actually to be interpreted as "conceptual" fields: if I have a `Time` class, exposing methods like `getHour()`, `getMinute()` and `getSeconds()`, I can use either one private field `seconds`, or three fields `hour`, `minute`, `seconds`, but in both cases I'd be dealing with only one "conceptual" `time` field, which is also what this value object is representing; in other words, `hour`, `minute` and `seconds`, despite being physically separate fields, they already represent a highly cohesive system. Regarding purity, in functional programming a pure function would be something like `add(1, 2)` which doesn't depend on any dependency except for the arguments passed; we can simulate this treating one argument as the "conceptual" field of our object, like with a `Number` class containing the `number` field, and the `add(Number)` method using it.
5. Never use static methods, never define methods that don't depend on any private field. Rather, create a new class encapsulating one of the arguments.
